So you've got this amazing project idea,
right?
You know it's a winner,
but how do you get the people holding the purse strings to see it that way?
That's what we're tackling today.
We're gonna break down how you can turn that
brilliant idea into a business case so strong,
so
bulletproof that it gets the green light.
Let's dive in.
All right,
let's just be real for a second.
When your project gets rejected,
you might hear all sorts of reasons.
It's not in the budget,
the timing isn't right,
but a lot of the time,
the honest truth,
the one people won't say to your face,
is this,
the proposal just
wasn't good.
And you know what?
Accepting that is the very first step to making sure it never happens again.
So that begs the question,
what actually makes a proposal good?
What's the secret sauce that takes an idea from the
maybe pile to the top of the priority list?
I'll give you a hint,
it's not about fancy fonts or a slick PowerPoint.
It's about building an absolutely rock solid logical
argument for why your project must happen.
To figure out how to build a great proposal,
we first have to understand why so many of them fail.
And here's the thing,
it's usually not because of the document itself.
The failure often happens way before a single word is even written.
This right here is the number one reason projects get shot down.
Think of it like this,
your project is a puzzle piece.
The company's strategy is the big picture on the box.
If you can't show exactly how your piece fits into that bigger picture,
then no matter how cool your piece is,
it's basically useless to them.
You know,
up in the C-suite,
they have a fancy term for this,
project integration management.
It's all about making sure every single project,
every department,
every dollar spent is pushing the company in the same direction.
Your business case,
it's your chance to prove you're already thinking that way,
that your idea isn't just an idea,
it's a strategic move.
OK,
so how do we guarantee our idea is seen as strategic?
We use a framework.
We stop staring at a blank page,
and instead we follow a proven logical process.
We're gonna use a 5-step thinking tool called
the Sari framework.
This is your blueprint for building an argument that is clear,
compelling,
and truly bulletproof.
Sorry isn't just a mnemonic,
it's a whole new way of thinking.
It stands for situation,
analysis,
recommendation,
implementation,
and evaluation.
Following these five steps in this order,
takes you on a logical journey from,
here's a problem to,
here is the exact proven value of my solution.
And here's why this is so powerful.A isn't some random acronym we just made up.
It's actually a simplified version of
a formal process called enterprise analysis,
which is what professional business analysts use every single day.
So by using SA,
you're leveraging an industry standard method
that gives your proposal instant credibility.
First up,
S for situation.
This is where you lay out the problem,
and you absolutely have to speak the language of business,
which is money.
Don't say,
our customer service is slow,
no.
Say,
our slow response time is causing a 15% customer churn,
which cost us $1.2 million last year.
You see the difference?
State the problem,
describe its effect,
and nail down the financial impact.
Next,
A for analysis.
This is where you put on your detective hat.
A weak proposal just puts a band-aid on a symptom.
A bulletproof one finds and cures the disease.
A great way to do this is with the five wise technique.
Just keep asking why something is happening.
You'll be amazed how quickly you drill past the obvious stuff
and find the real root cause of that multi-million dollar problem.
So,
you've found the real problem.
Now,
R for recommendation.
The absolute key here is clarity,
and nothing creates clarity like a visual.
Instead of writing a long paragraph describing your solution,
use a simple diagram like this one.
It instantly shows everyone what the project will do and just as important,
what it won't do.
When it comes to scope,
a picture is worth 1000 words and probably a few $1000.
All right,
moving on to I for implementation.
It's not enough to say what you're going to do,
you have to explain
how.
A strong case always explores the options.
And the classic decision point here is buy versus build.
Should you get an off the shelf product,
or is your problem so unique that you need to build something completely custom?
You have to show you've thought this through.
So,
how do you prove you made the right call?
With data,
of course.
A tool like a decision tree is perfect for this.
It lets you map out the different paths,
weigh the risks and rewards of each one,
and calculate something called the expected monetary value or EMV.
This transforms your choice from a simple opinion into a data-backed,
financially sound conclusion.
But hang on,
before you dive deep into complex calculations,
it's smart to do a quick sanity check.
That's where something like TELOs comes in handy.
It's a simple acronym,
Technology,
Economic,
Legal,
Operational,
and Schedule.
It's a fast way to ask,
is this idea even realistic?
If you run into a major roadblock here,
you've just saved yourself a ton of wasted time and effort.
And that brings us to the final step,
E for evaluation.
This is the grand finale.
This is where you bring it all home and prove with cold hard numbers
that your project is a fantastic investment for the company.
You're gonna do this with a few key metrics that every executive understands.
Let's start with the simplest one,
the payback period.
It answers one very straightforward question,
how long until we make our money back?
It's super intuitive and in business,
faster is almost always better.
It's a metric anyone can understand at a glance.
Next,
the one everyone's heard of,
ROI or return on investment.
This is a big one.
It boils everything down into a single
powerful percentage that answers the question,
for every $1 we put into this,
how much profit will we get back each year?
A high ROI is pretty hard to argue with.
And finally,
for the finance folks in the room,
we have
NPV or NPV.
This is often seen as the gold standard because it's the smartest of the bunch.
It understands that $1 today is worth more than $1 next year.
The rule here couldn't be simpler.
If the NPV is positive,
it is a financially sound investment.
Full stop.
And here's where it all comes together beautifully.
A financial analysis sheet like this one tells the entire story on a single page.
You've got your initial cost right here in your zero,
then you see the cash benefits flowing in over the next few years.
And right at the top,
the bottom line,
your payback period,
your ROI and your NPV.
This isn't just a spreadsheet,
it's the final undeniable proof that your project is a winner.
Now that we've walked through the whole framework,
let's circle back to where we started,
why proposals fail.
What's so great about the Sari process is that it has a
built-in defense system against the most common mistakes that people make.
Just look at this.
Worried you didn't understand what was really needed?
The situation and analysis steps force you to find out.
Scared your scope and price are unclear?
The recommendation and evaluation steps clarify exactly that.
Every common pitfall has a direct countermeasure
built right into the Sari framework.
It's your quality check.
So let's bring this all home.
Getting a project approved isn't about luck or just having a good idea.
It's a process.
It's about systematically building a logical,
data-driven argument that connects your great idea directly to
the company's strategic goals and its bottom line.
So,
what do you need to remember?
First,
always frame your project as a solution to a real business problem.
Second,
use a structured framework like Sari to guide your thinking.
Third,
always dig for the root cause before you jump to a solution.
Fourth,
back everything up with a clear financial case.
And finally,
use that list of common mistakes as a final checklist before you even start writing.
That's your blueprint.
You see,
when you stop thinking about just writing a document
and start focusing on building a case,
everything changes.
You're no longer just someone with an idea,
you become a strategic problem solver for the business.
So,
with this new blueprint in hand,
what business problem are you gonna solve next?